README.md, before:

# Job Listing Full Stack (Next.js + Prisma + MongoDB + NextAuth + Tailwind)

This repository is a starter scaffold for a job listing application built with Next.js App Router, Prisma (MongoDB), NextAuth (Google provider), and Tailwind CSS.

## Features
- Two roles: Developer and Employer
- Developers: browse jobs, view job details, apply for jobs
- Employers: post, edit, delete jobs

## Folder structure

- `app/` - Next.js App Router pages and API routes
- `components/` - React components (NavBar, forms, cards)
- `lib/` - shared utilities (Prisma client, auth)
- `prisma/` - Prisma schema
- `public/` - static assets

## Env
Copy `.env.example` to `.env` and fill values.

## Setup

1. Install dependencies

```powershell
cd c:\Projects\job-listing-full-stack
npm install
```

2. Generate Prisma client

```powershell
npx prisma generate
```

3. Push schema to MongoDB (use with caution — use migrations for SQL DBs)

```powershell
npx prisma db push --accept-data-loss
```

4. Run dev server

```powershell
npm run dev
```

## NextAuth Google setup
- Create OAuth credentials in Google Cloud Console
- Set `GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID` and `GOOGLE_CLIENT_SECRET` in `.env`
- Set `NEXTAUTH_URL` to your site URL (http://localhost:3000 for local)
- Set `NEXTAUTH_SECRET` (use a strong random value)

## Prisma Models
See `prisma/schema.prisma` for models: User, Account, Session, VerificationToken, Job, Application.

## Notes
- This is a scaffold. You'll want to add role-based UI, authentication checks in API routes, and improve validation and error handling.
- Designed for MongoDB via Prisma's MongoDB connector.

Commit message:

Implement role-based access control for job management and admin creation; enhance error handling and validation in API routes.

README.md, after:

# Job Listing Full Stack (Next.js + Prisma + MongoDB + NextAuth + Tailwind)

This repository is a starter scaffold for a job listing application built with Next.js App Router, Prisma (MongoDB), NextAuth (Google provider), and Tailwind CSS.

## Features
- Two roles: Developer and Employer
- Developers: browse jobs, view job details, apply for jobs
- Employers: post, edit, delete jobs

## Folder structure

- `app/` - Next.js App Router pages and API routes
- `components/` - React components (NavBar, forms, cards)
- `lib/` - shared utilities (Prisma client, auth)
- `prisma/` - Prisma schema
- `public/` - static assets

## Env
Copy `.env.example` to `.env` and fill values.

## Setup

1. Install dependencies

```powershell
cd c:\Projects\job-listing-full-stack
npm install
```

2. Generate Prisma client

```powershell
npx prisma generate
```

3. Push schema to MongoDB (use with caution — use migrations for SQL DBs)

```powershell
npx prisma db push --accept-data-loss
```

4. Run dev server

```powershell
npm run dev
```

## NextAuth Google setup
- Create OAuth credentials in Google Cloud Console
- Set `GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID` and `GOOGLE_CLIENT_SECRET` in `.env`
- Set `NEXTAUTH_URL` to your site URL (http://localhost:3000 for local)
- Set `NEXTAUTH_SECRET` (use a strong random value)

### Creating an initial admin

To create the first admin (who can create employer accounts), set the `INITIAL_ADMIN_EMAIL` environment variable and run the included script:

```powershell
$env:INITIAL_ADMIN_EMAIL = 'admin@example.com'; npm run create-admin
```

This will create a user with `role = admin`. After that, sign in with that email via Google (or create the user via the admin UI) to complete the account.

## Prisma Models
See `prisma/schema.prisma` for models: User, Account, Session, VerificationToken, Job, Application.

## Notes
- This is a scaffold. You'll want to add role-based UI, authentication checks in API routes, and improve validation and error handling.
- Designed for MongoDB via Prisma's MongoDB connector.
